Add why-is-document-or-window-not-defined-in-client-component (#1)
joulev/nextjs-discord-common-questions: content/docs/why-is-document-or-window-not-defined-in-client-component.mdx

---
updated: 2023-09-14
title: 

>     "Why is document, window, localStorage or sessionStorage undefined in client components?"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "Why are document, window, localStorage and sessionStorage undefined in client components?"
```

messageContent:
    "Don't use document, window, localStorage or sessionStorage in client components outside of
  useEffect. See the reason why and some code examples [here](<link>)."
---

> > I'm having this function in client component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> I'm having this function in a client component
```

>
> ```ts
> "use client";
> export default function Page() {
>   const [theme, setTheme] = useState(localStorage.getItem("theme"));
> }

> > ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ```tsx
> "use client";
>
> export default function Page() {
>   const [theme, setTheme] = useState(localStorage.getItem("theme"));
>   return ...;
> }
> ```
```

>
> But I'm getting an error saying  
> `ReferenceError: localStorage is not defined`
>
> Why is that? Isn't it supposed to work in client components?

> The name client component is quite misleading. It's not a component that runs in the browser. It's a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name client component is quite misleading. It's not a component that runs *exclusively* in the browser. It's a
```

component that runs on the **server** and the client. The code inside the component is executed
first on the **server** and the client or in other words, it's pre rendered on the server and then

> hydrated on the client.

Reviewer: Could we get some documentation link for the "it's pre-rendered ... on the client" part?

### What's the fix for this?

> There are 2 fixes of this problem:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 2 fixes for this problem:
```

> - move logic using these APIs in `useEffect` hook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- move logic using browser-specific APIs to `useEffect` (or an event handler, or any place that only runs on the client).
```

> - import a component dynamically with `ssr:false`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- import a component dynamically with `next/dynamic` and `ssr: false`
```

> ### Moving logic in useEffect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Moving logic in `useEffect`
```

If we move the logic inside `useEffect` hook, it will only run on the client. So, we can use these
APIs without any problem.

```ts
"use client";
export default function Page() {
  const [theme, setTheme] = useState(undefined);

  useEffect(() => {
    setTheme(localStorage.getItem("theme"));
  }, []);
}
```

> ### Importing component dynamically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use `next/dynamic` with `ssr: false`
```

> If we import a component dynamically with `ssr:false`, it will only run on the client. So, we can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we [import a component dynamically with `ssr: false`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/lazy-loading#skipping-ssr), it will only run on the client, at the cost of the content not being available in the initial HTML (so crawlers may not be able to see it). If that is fine for you, you can proceed to
```

use these APIs without any problem.

> ```ts
> import dynamic from "next/dynamic";
> 
> const Page = dynamic(() => import("./content.tsx"), { ssr: false });
> 
> export default Page;
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```tsx
import dynamic from "next/dynamic";

const Content = dynamic(() => import("./content.tsx"), { ssr: false });

export default function Page() {
  return <Content />;
}
```
```
